\input texinfo    @c -*-texinfo-*-

@setfilename test.info
@settitle word
@documentencoding UTF-8

@node Top
@top word

@table @samp
@item noun

@enumerate
@item
a unit of language, consisting of one or more spoken sounds or their
written representation, that functions as a principal carrier of
meaning. Words are composed of one or more morphemes and are either the
smallest units susceptible of independent use or consist of two or three
such units combined under certain linking conditions, as with the loss
of primary accent that distinguishes black·bird· from blacbird. Words
are usually separated by spaces in writing, and are distinguished
phonologically, as by accent, in many languages.

@item
(used in combination with the first letter of an offensive or
unmentionable word, the first letter being lowercase or uppercase, with
or without a following hyphen):

@cite{My mom married at 20, and she mentions the m-word every time I
meet someone she thinks is eligible.}

See also @strong{f-word}, @strong{n-word}.

@item
words.

@enumerate a
@item
speech or talk: to express one's emotion in words;
@cite{Words mean little when action is called for.}

@item
the text or lyrics of a song as distinguished from the music.

@item
contentious or angry speech; a quarrel:
@cite{We had words and she walked out on me.}
@end enumerate

@item
a short talk or conversation:
Marston, I'd like a word with you.

@item
an expression or utterance:

@cite{a word of warning.}

@item
warrant, assurance, or promise:

@cite{I give you my word I'll be there.}

@item
news; tidings; information:

@cite{We received word of his death.}
@end enumerate

@samp{noun}.

@item verb (used with object)

to express in words; select words to express; phrase:


@cite{to word a contract with great care.}

@item Idioms

@enumerate
@item
@strong{at a word,} in immediate response to an order or request; in an instant:

@cite{At a word they came to take the situation in hand.}

@item
@strong{be as good as one's word,} to hold to one's promises.

@item
@strong{eat one's words,} to retract one's statement, especially with humility:

@cite{They predicted his failure, but he made them eat their words.}

@item
@strong{have a word,} to talk briefly:

@cite{Tell your aunt that I would like to have a word with her.}

@item
@strong{have no words for,} to be unable to describe:

@cite{She had no words for the sights she had witnessed.}

@item
@strong{in a word,} in summary; in short:

@cite{In a word, there was no comparison.}
Also, in one word.

@item
@strong{in so many words,} in unequivocal terms; explicitly:
She told them in so many words to get out.
@end enumerate

@end table

@bye
